{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13840\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 LITTLE RIVER\
Sinks to Elbow\
Most recent run on May 18, 2025\
Level was 3.1ft pretty steady, with Randy and Russ C.  Russ said that far more often he is on it at the 2.6 to 2.7ft range so this was lovely for him.  I thought it was a nice level and I did not feel overpowered and I liked how the higher water gave me more room to maneuver when approaching all of the rapids big and small.  At the beginning of the day Randy said that a level of 3.1ft made him inclined to portage Eddy Out but he ran it nonetheless and maybe would say that he liked that level.\
We actually ran all the way down to the Wye, portaged ELBOW.\
I made a Voice Memo of my notes but here is what I can recall right now.\
From the Sinks rapid the first half mile or so is Class 3 boogie water at this level.  The first named rapid is called Silver Diner but I do not recall very much of it so just following Randy and Russ must have been good enough.  The first significant challenge  rapid, in my opinion, is named EDDY OUT and Randy and Russ both recommended that we scout it during the drive up to the put-in so we did.  First thing I noticed is that upstream approx 70 meters is one of the first "massive road-building blocks of stone coming down to the water vertically" sections.  In addition, a medium sycamore tree has a large branch hanging out over the river and then there is a unique-looking, large boulder at the start of the entrance rapid.  The entrance rapid is basically a rock garden that is far more troublesome than you might think but fortunately there is no compelling reason to need speed as you enter-- you just need to pick your way through the rock garden to get closer to your move.  Randy and Russ pointed out that the Classic Line is to catch a 1-boat eddy on river left just above the horizon line of the main ledge.  You then peel out from the eddy and use that to get momentum heading back to the right and your goal is to get your boat onto a boat-width sized flake of rock that juts out downstream and allows you to miss the worst of the powerful hole.  Immediately to the left of the flake is a strong hole guarded by a large boulder to its left.  The line that Russ and I took today stayed far to the right and basically set us up to avoid the risks of the classic line and just punch through a different hole on the right side.  Caution-- if taking this line immediately downstream is a large rock that has a lot of current flowing into it so that's your next challenge after running the right line.  Today I had more of a problem with the rock garden than expected, but I recovered fairly easily and had no trouble with my run.\
Downstream of EDDY OUT there was a section of less-fast water that was just the aerobic break that I needed.\
Then another lovely section of class 3 boogie-water and then a fun rapid named Airplane which is very similar to Mary's Rock rapid on the lower Little-- start from the left and then take a sweeping turn to river right adjacent to a large boulder and feel a PUSH from the current as you finish in an eddy.\
BOTTOMS UP is next and it is pretty easy to identify from the road during the drive upstream because it has a distinctive look to its large, mildly pyramidical boulder in the center of the river.  The Classic Line is to start just right of center and then paddle up onto the sheen of water atop the boulder and then angle your boat to finish pointing at the river right bank or even pointing back upstream.  What we did today was to take a right line where we caught a 3-boat eddy on river right just upstream and then basically paddled right over the horizon line on a tongue that is guarded by partially-exposed rocks to either side and a fairly strong and definitely highly-aerated hole at the bottom because that massive boulder is redirecting a lot of water in from the center.\
TUNNEL is the next named rapid and it is basically the rapid immediately upstream of ELBOW (which we did not run).  Tunnel kind of got me scared but it was solely because I did not know where was Elbow Rapid but I felt like I was starting it "right there."  Turns out that it is clearly upstream of Elbow and it has a very deep and long pool betweeen it and Elbow where I would have plenty of time to roll.  To run tunnel start whereever you want and then work your way to the right where the water is building and compressing and then it's going to drop a short but sudden distance back to the left where a strong hole waits, lots of bubbles, and that deep pool.\
Downstream of the pool is the entrance to Elbow and on river left, behind a large boulder, is an eddy big enough for two boats where you can safely exit and scramble up poison-ivy infested steps to the road for your portage. Randy actually portaged upstream of Tunnel to be cautious.}