{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13840\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 UPPER OCOEE\
\
https://www.tva.com/environment/lake-levels/Ocoee-3\
\
Mikey\'92s / Alien  is the first significant rapid.  The boof for Alien on river left is about a 5 foot drop.  The entrance rapid above it is easy; you\'92ll see a crevasse/weakness/Vee at the top of the ledge and you want to pop off of the right edge (furthest downstream bit) of the vee angled to about 1 o\'92clock downstream, kind of, and BOOF.  Boof stroke with your LEFT paddle blade as you begin to clear the horizon of the ledge.  In fact, it was at this rapid that I first began to work on my Boof technique, reaching forward with the correct paddle blade to execute the boof correctly.  The water is shallow at the top of the ledge so be expecting to hang up without enough momentum. \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature0 I mentioned the crevasse in this drop; in the dead center of this crease is a disruptive knuckle, knot, whatever you want to call it piece of rock.  So you should take a look at this drop to identify it or at least be capable of describing it to people.  \cf0 \cb1 \CocoaLigature1 Mikey\'92s is the river-right channel at this point on the river.  It\'92s not terribly demanding as long as you\'92re able to see and then account for a mostly-submerged rock in the center of the channel.  It\'92s not easy to pick out and it can hang up rafts pretty easily; kayaks can avoid it easily.  There\'92s a good eddy on river right just upstream of this rock.  Alternatively, there is a river left (center) line where you can move left, early on, of the pinning-rock and boof off of a weak, shallow pourover and then finish the rest of the rapid.  Still talking about Mikey\'92s, today I just followed Carl and went off a short ledge left of center and it makes Mikey\'92s just easy easy easy.   In June 2018 I saw Grizz take the river left line but he was too low while moving left and his boat was turned on-edge by this partially submerged rock.  In Summer 2019 Carl showed me this river left line again.  It is easy.  You just boof off of a shallow ledge left of center, near the top of the rapid, and then be prepared to deal with some guardian rocks.  You do not even deal with the eddy on far river right.  Carl takes the ultimate boof by going true center and boofing off the large rock in the center.  Randby Bigee seems to eddy right and then ferry back to the river left, ferrying across a wave, upstream of the pinning rock.  \'93Blue Hole\'94 is the next significant rapid downstream (still all of this is upstream of the Olympic Center Visitor Center pedestrian bridge).   For \'93Blue Hole\'94 we eddied out just above the drop.  Then ferried over to a small/medium eddy just above the drop.  And then ran the drop right next to this boulder with a downstream face that is nearly vertical\'85.it\'92s just a little chute that will let you use \'93right to left momentum\'94 to get you left of center for the remainder of the rapid, which is desirable.  HUMUNGOUS, in the Olympic section, has a line, but I rarely take it.\
July 2017, just a small note that I should no longer be confusing the rapid "Takeout" , on the Cheaoh, with any rapid on the Upper Ocoee.  There is no significant rapid on the Upper Ocoee with a "slot" that you need to hit.  In the past I had been confused about this, thinking that "Blue Hole" had a slot or something.\
ROACH MOTEL.  In June 2025 I refreshed my memory of the Sept2022 comment.  I followed Russ as he entered the rapid left of center and then caught a tongue, similar to that of Nanny Falls, and followed it between two offset holes at the top.  Then he paddled over to an eddy on the left which allows for a setup to finish the rapid just slightly right of center to miss the most powerful portion of the final, Big Hole...as he was already in the eddy I just kept going straight through (although I did not need a tonne of speed here) and found a small weakness in two more holes, including the Big Hole.  All in all, that line is more challenging and more fun than my many years of hugging the right side to as to stay away from them altogether.  In Sept 2022 I was not as far right, where the action starts, as I normally am.  I got a Face Full Of Water but with the speed I had I punched the hole.  The turbulence of the hole then slowed me and fed my boat river-left to a large eddy.  Where I stopped, assessed my new situation, and collected my thoughts.  I was able to peel out and finish the rapid OK but from this experience I learned a few things-- those holes ARE punchable and, if I do go that way, then it becomes progressively more difficult to work my way to river right.\
}