{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24960\viewh15540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 WHITE OAK CREEK Hwy 52 Rugby TN  tributary of Clear Fork near Burnt Mill Bridge\
6 miles from hwy52 to the Confluence with Clear Fork or 3.5 miles from the Horseshoe Bend shortcut, which is all I've done so far\
5.5 miles from the Confluence down to Burnt Mill Bridge\
\
March 13, 2023.  Level was exactly 850cfs (I checked the precise record later on) on the USGS Robbins gauge for Clear Fork.  That was a decent level.  To my eye White Oak Creek itself was about the same as year 2022 which could make sense as it's a tributary from a virtual gauge.  I took a picture or two and a short video of some "visual notes" from the put-in in the Rugby jungle.  Note that the Confluence is not terribly far downstream from the Class 3 "Slide" rapid which, itself, that rapid is immediately upstream of that nice, flat lunch spot rock on river left.  Also, at the confluence I hopped out on river left and saw the trail back to Rugby-- blazed with GREEN and there was a wooden sign with a "14" on it as if it were an interpretative sign.  Others have posted notes that indicate that if you take this trail back to Rugby then beware as it is a loop trail and from the river, after finding the trail, be certain to turn left onto the loop which will quickly take you to the old logging bed as opposed to a steeper section of the trail with some scrambling.  On this trip I "eyeballed, from the boat" options for campsites and although I cannot recall seeing any obvious spots on White Oak Creek proper and I was looking for them more explicitly on Clear Fork and I think that I saw some options where tributary creeks run in to Clear Fork but my BSF topo map should help.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
March 16, 2022. Level was approx 730cfs on the USGS Robbins gauge for Clear Fork which was just fine; I think several hundred more cfs would hardly make any difference on the White Oak Creek section aside from moving it along a wee bit faster. ALF group.   We were looking for an easier day with great beauty and plenty of time to chit-chat while drifting along. White Oak Creek delivered in spades.  We launched via Horseshoe Bend Rd to skip the first 2 miles (approx) of flatwater starting from the hwy52 bridge.  To be more specific, we parked at a litter-filled, muddy "turnaround" off of Horseshoe Bend Road, just 50 yards from where we parked our car.  It is possible that others hike a trail that cuts off even more flat water than we avoided but my backpacker's map indicated we were skipping 2 miles upstream to the highway 52 bridge so we were happy.\
It was mostly class 2 with the "Slide" rapid being the sole exception, perhaps class 3-minus at our water level of 730cfs. The "Slide" rapid was easy to identify as the only mildly interesting horizon line; we boat-scouted it from the horizon's edge and saw that it was easy. After reaching the confluence with Clear Fork we paddled on down to Burnt Mill Bridge after reaching the confluence. The first two, maybe 2.5 to three miles below the confluence, at approx 730cfs, moved along with fairly steady water and a smattering of class 2+ drops. In the final two to 2.5 miles the water slowly significantly with long, quarter-mile or more pools between just four or five class 2 drops in the final two miles.  Approx 1 mile upstream of Burnt Mill Bridge I saw indications of the hiking trail of Burnt Mill Bridge Loop, a trail I plan on hiking it some day.\
}